# Necktie Doctor Booking

This is a doctor booking page web application that allows patients to schedule appointments with doctors.

## Features

### Find Doctors

On the home page, patients can see all the doctors. Clicing "Book Appointment" will direct them to the doctors page.

### Book a Doctor

On a doctors profile page, patients can see the doctors opening hours, and their availability of specific days. If a booking timeslot is not available, the timeslot will be disabled. Patiens will not be allowed to make a booking.

### Notification on Success

On booking success, the patient is notified that the booking was done. If this was an error on their part, they're allowed a brief moment to cancel the appointment by clicking "cancel"

### Manage Bookings

Patients can view all of their bookings which are sorted with the upcoming bookings first. Patients can cancel bookings by selecting the "Cancel" button.

### Simple User Profile

To make a booking with a doctor, a patient needs to provide their information. On the top-right of the navigation menu is the ability to switch users. For simplicity sake, only two different users can be selected.

## Getting Started

### Application

To start the application, first install the NPM packages

```bash
npm install
```

Start the development site using

```bash
npm run dev
```

To build use

```bash
npm run build
```

### Environment Variables

Create a .env.local file in the root directory

```bash
touch .env.local
```

For the app to work, you will need two environment variable

```.env
VITE_API_URL=<backend_url>
VITE_API_KEY=<backend_access_token>
```

## Specifications

### Tech Stack

This app was developed with Typescript, ReactJS, Vite, and the [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/) with TailwindCSS.

-   Typescript helps ensure typesafety
-   Vite provides fast build times and instant updates on the browser which helps with the frontend development
-   ReactJS is an easy-to-use framework with great performance for developing multi-page web applications
-   [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/) is an open source component library built with tailwindcss that makes development easier. New to using shadcn/ui, but it really helped in the development of the UI

> Note: the components within /components/ui are all generated by [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/). It has a different naming convention then what I am using. I tried to change the names of all those components, but Netlify build kept giving errors so I've reverted it back.

### Dependencies

Main dependencies are:

-   **axios**: Used to make api calls. Rather than using fetch, axios has a lot of useful built-in behavior (i.e. auto parsing JSON) which streamlines the process for handling API calls.
-   **zustand**: A state management library that is fairly easy to use over it's competitor Redux. Using state management to handle user information, data from doctors, data of user bookings, etc.
-   **react-router-dom**: For accessing different routes in the application like "/" home, "/bookings" and "/doctors/:id"
-   **react-day-picker**: For the calendar input so the user can choose a data on the calendar

> The rest of the dependencies are mostly from shadcn/ui. Since it's an open source component, it's possible to remove some for different use cases, but I decided to leave them in here to simplify development.

## Assumptions

## Improvements

### Search, Filtering and Viewing

For the search doctors page "/":

-   the patient can search by a doctors name
-   the patient can filter doctors by their openings hours
-   the patient can filter doctors by location
-   the patient can see a small note if they have an upcoming booking with a doctor

For the manage bookings page "/bookings":

-   the patient can filter bookings by doctors name
-   the patient can sort the bookings by date
-   the patient can filter bookings by dates

And for both doctors, and bookings page, it would be nice to allow the patient to select a different viewing format: Card and List/Table (Row). The List/Table (Row) may be simpler to view multiple bookigns at once.

### Cancelled and Past Bookings

A patient doesn't need to see thee bookings that they've cancelled, so that can be removed.

However, a patient should be able to see the bookings they've confirmed but are now in the past. There can be a tab to show `current bookings` and another one that says `past bookings`.

### User Authentication

To make a booking, a patient needs to include their name. Although the backend is simple as it only requires their name, I think it would be a better and more safe approach to have authenticated users so the system would not be misused.

### Doctor Booking Page

#### Profile Card

On the doctor profile card, it would be good to see the upcoming bookings made by that user. If there are more than 2 bookings, selecting "see all bookings" will redirect the user to the `/bookings` page with a specific query filtering doctors.

#### Booking An Appointment

Fixes:

-   Handle errors for booking on the same day. From my testing, it seems this isn't allowed as the backend doesn't update.

UI/UX Considerations:

-   If the unavailable timeslot is booked by the user, then show it disabled but in a different color.

Functionality:

-   Don't allow users to make a booking with the same doctor on the same day.
-   Don't allow users to make a booking with another doctor if that booking overlaps with another booking(i.e. Yil cannot book May 28th at 10AM with both Dr. Bob and Dr. Dog)

### User Bookings State Management

### Tanstack React Query

[Tanstack React Query](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@tanstack/react-query) provides asynchronous state management. It would simplify the hooks, and with the built-in querying functions, mutation functions, refetching and more, it can make the process getting doctors and bookings much simpler.

One assumption is that the list of doctors will not be updated often. Therefore, there's no need to refetch the doctors if it exists on the patients local storage. A query with a specific `staleTime` can be added here.

<h3 style="color:#FF69B4">Theme</h3>
<span style="color:#FF69B4">Make the site pink</span>
